All machine-dependent files are located in directories with roughly
the that uname -s gives, e.g. AIX, SunOS, Linux.  Alas, exception(s)
occur when this name itself has a / in it, such as BSDI.

For a new OS/architecture you need to port the files in this
directory. The hardest one will be xps.c in which you need to do some
of the kinds of things that ps is doing. (I suppose it's possible to
call ps all the time but that'd probably be very very slow.)

More on xps.c. The basic information you need is a short process names
as you see in the display window, the parent process, and it's status
(running, sleeping, zombie, etc.). Some newer OS's have a /proc
filesystem that lists processes and gives status about that.  On
BSD-ish type boxes you get this information from kernel memory.

The other files in this directory os.h and loadavg.c, are relatively
easy once xps.c is done.

os.h has to define a type called ProcInfo which is a machine-dependent
structure for holding the process info that xps.c uses. This type
comes from system-dependent headers, such as <procinfo.h> or
<sys/procfs.h> or <kvm.h>.

os.h defines the gives the two ps commands that are used when the
process window popped up for a selected window. Use %d as a
placeholder for the process number.

loadavg.c can be skipped initially by putting in a stub
for it:

  int 
  xps_getloadavg (double *one, double *five, double *fifteen) {
  }

xps_getloadavg sets the 1-, 5-, and 15-minute load averages that are
seen on the bottom of the display. This is the same as what
the uptime command reports.

To be thorough and complete -- and in the distribution that's what we
strive for even if it is not achieved -- there should be a stand alone
or test version of this program that can be built by setting the C
preprocessor variable STANDALONE.

If you have a pretty standard system that has perl running and kill -l
lists signal names sigmap.h will be created automatically by the
makesig.pl program. You should initially move that in your
Platform-specific directory. It's possible just to create sigmap.h by
hand or copy from another platform or do without it altogether by
"#undef"ing HAVE_KILL.

The program postconf.pl has to be modified to add your platform.  All
this program does symbolically link files in the architecture-specific
directory into the parent directory.

And finally send back the port if you'd like to include it in the 
main distribution.
